API:-
	API stands for an application programming interface.
	It is a set of protocols, routines or tools used to build software application.
	It's a way for different applications to communicate with each other and exchange data.
	By using apis developers can easily build complex applications.
	Application refers to any software with a distinct function.
	The interface means a contract of service between two applications. This contract defines how two applications
	communicate with each other using requests and responses.

Types of APIs
	Standalone APIs:-
		An API that can be run on a local machine only using a specific platform.

	Web APIs:-
		Web APIs are APIs that can be accessed using the HTTP protocol. The API defines endpoints, and valid
	request and response formats.
		Web APIs are categorized into two APIs
		1 REST API and 2 SOAP API.
		
		1. REST API:-
			REST (representational state transfer) is a very popular web API architecture. It is an Architecture
		style.
			REST API is an API which is created using REST architecture.
			To Be a REST API, an API must follow certain guidelines.
			
			I) Client-server architecture:-
				The Interface is separated from the backend and data storage. This allows for flexibility and components
			can evolve independently of each other.

			II) Statelessness:-
				Every Rest Api has to be stateless. i.e.
				No client context is stored on the server between requests.
				Every request will be treated as a new request.

			III) Cacheability:-
				Clients can cache responses so a REST API response must state whether it can be cached or not.
				A cacheable response is an HTTP response that can be cached, that is stored to be retrieved 
			and used later, saving a new request to the server.

			IV) Layered System:-
				The API will work whether is it directly communicating with the server or through an intermediary such as
				load balancer.

		2. SOAP API:-
			SOAP(Simple object access protocol) is an established web API protocol. It is intended to be extensible,
			neutral(supports various range of communication protocols like SMTP, FTP, HTTP, TCP, and more).
			The SOAP Specification includes,

			I) The Processing model: means how to process SOAP messages.

			II) Extensibility model: SOAP Features and modules.

			III) Protocol binding rules: how to use SOAP with an underlying protocol, such as HTTP.

			IV) Message Construct: how to structure a SOAP message.


		Note that it is possible to build a RESTful API while using SOAP protocols.


		Difference between REST and SOAP:

		SOAP is a simple object access protocol while rest is representational state transfer it is an architectural
		style.

		SOAP is an XML-based protocol where the rest can use XML as well as JSON for messaging.

		SOAP API uses a special language WSDL(Web Service Description Language) whereas rest API has no specific 
		the language uses HTTP for message passing.

		SOAP-based APIs are more secure while the rest APIs are less secure.

		SOAP API uses more bandwidth compared to rest API.

		Parsing the XML data is slower than parsing json data so the rest APIs are faster than soap API.

		
		