Serialization:
	Serialization is defined as a process of converting an object into a sequence or stream of bytes that can
	persist in a database or file or can be sent through streams.

	Serialization saves the state of objects for recreation without having to reprocess them on diffrent platforms..

	Serialization is useful for storing, Transmitting the state of on object.

Concept of Serialize:
		Object -> Byte-Stream -> File/Database/transmit over the network

Deserialization:
		Deserialization is reverse or opposite process of creating an object from a sequence/stream of bytes.

Concept of Deserialization:
		File/Database/transmit over the network -> Byte-Stream -> Object

Advantages of Serialization and Deserialization:
		It is platform independent.
		Serialization reduces the data size of an object.
		Because of less data size the serialized data gets trasmitted fastly over the network.



Pickling and UnPickling in Python:
		Python provides easy interface to serialize and deserialize the data i.e pickle module

Pickling :
		Pickling is a process through which we convert python object into the byte stream.

		it is done by using dump() method 

		e.x pickle.dump(object, file)

		The first argument is the python object that needs to be serialized. The second argument will be the file
	object where we will store the serialized python object.

	
UnPickling :
		Unpickling is a process in which original python objects are retrieved from the previously stored string
	representation or we can say it as byte stream.

		it is done by using load() method

		e.x obj = pickle.load(file)



Cross-Platform-Compatibility:
		JavaScript object notation(JSON) is a popular serialization and deserialization format used in rest applications.

JSON -
		JSON stands for JavaScript object notation and is a lightweight data-interchange format.
		It is easy for humans to read and write and is easy for machines to parse and generate.
		JSON is a text format which is completely language independant but uses the conventions used by most
	programming languages.
		JSON supports universal data structures like int , float , string , array, object which are supported by 
	all modern programming languages.
		
		

		 	