Data:
Data is collection of raw, unorganized facts and details.
Data can be anything like your name, age, DOB, rollno, eid, salary, marks, address, acct.number, phone number, pincode, date..... 


structured data:
	The data which is highly organized is referred to as structured data.
	It is quantitative(measurable) in nature like numbers, dates, and times.
	It is easy to search and analyze structured data. Structured data exists in a predefined format.


unstructured data:
	All the data in files, log files, emails, social media comments and posts are included in the unstructured data. 


To store data we need database.

** types of DBMS **

Centralised database.
Distributed database.
Personal database.
End-user database.
Commercial database.
NoSQL database.
Operational database.
Relational database --> MySQL, MSSQL, SQLite, Oracle, PostgreSQL...
Cloud database.
Object-oriented database.
Graph database.


structured data lives in relational databases.
The data here is set up in tables that have rows (records) and columns (fields). 


** MySQL is a widely used relational database management system (RDBMS).
What is MySQL?
MySQL is free, ideal for both small and large applications.
MySQL is very fast, reliable, scalable, and easy to use
MySQL is cross-platform
MySQL was first released in 1995
MySQL is developed, distributed, and supported by Oracle Corporation
MySQL is named after co-founder Micheal Widenius's daughter: My


Who Uses MySQL?
Huge websites like Facebook, Twitter, Airbnb, Booking.com, Uber, GitHub, YouTube, etc.

RDBMS uses SQL queries to access the data in the database.

What is Structured Query Language?
SQL is the standard language for dealing with Relational Databases.
SQL is used to insert, search, update, and delete database records.


These SQL commands are mainly categorized into five categories as: 

DDL – Data Definition Language
DQL – Data Query Language
DML – Data Manipulation Language
DCL – Data Control Language
TCL – Transaction Control Language






1. show databases;
2. create database db_name;
3. drop database db_name;
4. use db_name;
5. create table tbl_name (field1 datatype1, field2 datatype2..... );
 --> if dataype is varchar(size) need to mention size compulsory
6. desc tbl_name;
7. drop table tbl_name;
8. insert into tbl_name values(val1, val2, .....);
9. insert into tbl_name(field1, field2...) values (val1, val2);
10. select * from tbl_name;
11. select fieldname1, fieldname2.... from tbl_name;

